Basic Overall assessment
🧠 Onboarding – Basic Mental Health Assessment
(Mix of short validated screening questions from PHQ-2, GAD-2, PSS-4, etc.)
Instructions to user:
Please answer the following questions based on how you have felt over the past 2 weeks. Select the option that best describes your experience.

1. Depression (PHQ-2)
📌 Official PHQ-2, public domain

Over the last 2 weeks, how often have you been bothered by the following problems?


Little interest or pleasure in doing things
Feeling down, depressed, or hopeless

Options:
0 = Not at all
1 = Several days
2 = More than half the days
3 = Nearly every day

2. Anxiety (GAD-2)
📌 Official GAD-2, public domain

Over the last 2 weeks, how often have you been bothered by the following problems?


Feeling nervous, anxious, or on edge
Not being able to stop or control worrying

Options (same as above):
0 = Not at all
1 = Several days
2 = More than half the days
3 = Nearly every day

3. Stress (PSS-4 – Short Form of Perceived Stress Scale)
📌 Official PSS-4, public domain

In the last month, how often have you felt the following?


Felt that you were unable to control the important things in your life
Felt confident about your ability to handle personal problems (reverse scored)
Felt that things were going your way (reverse scored)
Felt difficulties were piling up so high that you could not overcome them

Options:
0 = Never
1 = Almost never
2 = Sometimes
3 = Fairly often
4 = Very often

4. Overthinking / Rumination (Short RRS – 4 Items)
📌 Based on Ruminative Response Scale Short Form (academic open use)

I think about how sad I feel
I analyze recent events to try to understand why I feel this way
I keep thinking about mistakes I’ve made
I find myself replaying the same thoughts over and over

Options:
1 = Almost never
2 = Sometimes
3 = Often
4 = Almost always

5. Personality (Mini-IPIP – 10 items short Big Five)
📌 Public domain version of IPIP

Please indicate how much you agree with the following statements:


I see myself as someone who is talkative (Extraversion)
I see myself as someone who tends to be lazy (Conscientiousness – reverse)
I see myself as someone who worries a lot (Neuroticism)
I see myself as someone who is curious about many different things (Openness)
I see myself as someone who is helpful and unselfish with others (Agreeableness)

Options:
1 = Strongly disagree
2 = Disagree
3 = Neutral
4 = Agree
5 = Strongly agree

6. Trauma & Fear Response (PC-PTSD-5 – Short Screen)
📌 Public domain screening tool (PC-PTSD-5)

In your life, have you ever had any experience that was so frightening, horrible, or upsetting that in the past month you:


Had nightmares about it or thought about it when you did not want to?
Tried hard not to think about it or went out of your way to avoid situations that reminded you of it?
Were constantly on guard, watchful, or easily startled?
Felt numb or detached from people, activities, or your surroundings?
Felt guilty or unable to stop blaming yourself or others for the event(s)?

Options:
Yes / No

7. Emotional Intelligence (Short EQ – 5 items)
📌 Adapted from Schutte Self-Report EI Test short items (open use in education/psychology)

I am aware of my emotions as they happen
I usually stay calm even in stressful situations
I can easily understand how others are feeling
I know how to motivate myself when I feel discouraged
I manage conflicts with others in a constructive way

Options:
1 = Strongly disagree
2 = Disagree
3 = Neutral
4 = Agree
5 = Strongly agree

